Oxford bookworms, stage 1 The President's murderer by Jennifer
Bassett, read by Nicolette Mackenzie The first day run the
man thought move faster
I can't stop now over the man's head the night
sky was black and cold and in
front of him were the trees tall dark trees 500
meters away I can hide there
the man thought I can hide in those trees they
can't see me in the trees he looked
behind him he could see the lights there were five
or six men they ran fast and
their lights moved up and down they were not far
away now he could hear
their feet on the ground the man ran faster his
legs were tired his body was
tired there were noises in his head he could not
see the trees were 200 meters
away he wanted to stop running he wanted to lie
down and sleep then he heard
a new noise dogs they've got dogs he thought oh
no not dogs I can't run faster
but he did faster and faster the trees were a
hundred meters away 50 20 and then
he was there the trees opened their dark arms to
him but he did not stop running
it was dark and quiet under the trees he ran
first to the left and then to the
right he came to a hill and for a second
or two he stopped and listened nothing
then he heard the dogs again but he could not
see the lights don't stop now he
thought dogs don't need eyes they can find you in
the dark quickly he ran down
the hill it was very dark here and he could
not see very well he ran into a
tree and nearly broke his arm careful he thought careful
he put his hands out in
front of him and ran more slowly then he heard
a new noise water a river he
thought the dogs can't follow me across water where is
it quick soon he found the
river it was not very big but it ran quickly
the water was cold on his tired
legs he walked and ran up the river through the
water for about two kilometers then he
stopped and listened again he could hear nothing he stood
there and waited the trees watched him
with dark secret eyes nothing no dogs no lights no
noises the man was cold now and very very tired
I need sleep he thought where can I hide he
looked up at the trees up there he thought the
dogs
can't follow me up a tree he found a tall
tree and went up it he could not see the
ground now he
half sat half stood in the tree and listened nothing
an hour he thought sleep for an hour then go
on go
south hide in the day and move at night I
can get there in five days perhaps six the man
put his
down on his arms and slept what are you saying
you lost him the chief of police said angrily the
young police inspector in front of her was tired very
tired he wanted to sit down but people did not
sit down in the
not before so the inspector stood I'm sorry chief he
said we couldn't find him in the trees we looked
all night but it was dark and the chief of
police put her
hands on the desk in front of her you had
five men with you inspector and two dogs and you
couldn't find him either
behind the chief of police was a tall woman of
about fifty her eyes were gray and very cold dangerous
eyes when either
did not ask questions first the inspector waited and the
chief of police looked at him coldly what are you
waiting for she asked go out and find him three
months ago this man Alex
dean on killed the president of our country he's a
murderer a dangerous man 24 hours ago he escaped from
prison and our new president wants him back in prison
today now at once
the inspector quickly left the room his name was Felix
and he was 33 years old that was young for
an inspector but he was a good policeman he liked
his job and worked long hours
but he was sometimes afraid of Eva Heine the chief
of police ten minutes later he was back in his
office and Adam came into his room Adam was 25
and usually worked with Felix on important jobs
what did the chief say Adam asked find dean on
quickly Felix said so let's begin have we got photographs
of dean on and what about his family
Adam put some photographs on the desk he's got a
wife and two young children he said right I want
photographs on television and in all the newspapers
four men can watch his house and family day and
night four hours on and four hours off next I
want policemen at all the airports and telephones rang and
people came
and went in the office Felix and Adam worked on
late into the night
the second day the next morning Alex Denon was 40
kilometers south of the prison he moved quickly and stayed
away from towns and villages it was winter and the
weather was cold
so there were not many people in the fields he
looked behind him often but nobody saw him and nobody
followed him
at midday he found a quiet field and lay down
under some small trees he slept at once
at about three o'clock Alex opened his eyes and
saw an old woman in front of him
what are you doing in my field young man she
said Alex sat up quickly I'm sorry he said
I was tired and needed some sleep I'm going now
you're very dirty the old woman said look at you
where are you going north Alex said he stood up
and began to move away don't run away I'm only
an old woman
she looked at him carefully you're dirty and hungry and
tired and afraid am I right
in my house and have some food and you can
have some of my husband's old clothes he died last
winter
Alex looked at her it was true he was hungry
and tired and dirty and afraid but not of this
old woman
thank you very much he said the old woman's name
was Marta her house was very small but she
were hungry she laughed Alex smiled but did not stop
eating Marta found some old clothes for him and then
made some
coffee she said nothing but watched him with a smile
Alex finished eating and drank some coffee he began to
feel better
how did you escape from prison Marta asked suddenly Alex's
face went white he stared at Marta and said nothing
you can stay here tonight Alex Dean on and have
a good sleep I don't like the police and I'm
not going to tell them
Felix and Adam did not get much sleep they stayed
in the office and slept between telephone calls the phones
rang often
but in the morning there was no news of Alex
Dean on the day went slowly the phones rang again
and again but there was no news
where is he what's he doing Felix said to Adam
he's hiding perhaps with friends we questioned all his friends
early this morning Adam said
they said nothing he looked at Felix can we bring
some of them in here with their wives then we
can ask more difficult questions
somebody usually talks then no Felix said coldly that's not
right and you know it Dean on can't get out
of the country now
but we need to find him today the chief isn't
going to be very happy late in the afternoon the
chief of police
telephone come to my office in half an hour she
told Felix Felix felt tired and dirty he quickly drank
some black coffee and changed his shirt
20 minutes later he stood in front of Eva Heinz
desk she did not smile but looked at Felix and
waited
the police are looking for Dean on in every town
and village Felix said quickly we are watching the roads
and the airports and the houses of his family and
friends sit down inspector and listen the chief said
we need to find this man quickly the president is
not happy you're a good policeman inspector and this is
an important job for you
chief Felix began how did dean on escape from prison
that's not important now the chief said but perhaps he
had friends in prison Felix said
perhaps they know something I need to talk to people
at the prison well you can't the chief said the
telephone rang on the chief's desk
she picked up the phone Eva Heinz here then she
smiled yes mr. President she said she listened for a
minute or two
yes of course mr. President I understand yes goodbye Eva
Heinz put the phone down and looked at Felix angrily
forget Dean on's escape from prison get out there and
find him and bring him back dead or alive at
the door Felix turned and looked at her
now go Felix walked slowly back to his office there
were a lot of questions in his head and he
did not know the answers
why can't I talk to people at the prison he
thought what did the president say to the chief on
the phone and why does she want dean on dead
he went to prison because he murdered the old president
everybody knows that
what can he talk about now
now
and the next morning Marta put a big breakfast on
the table Alex at Hungary and Marta talked what's happening
to this country she said I don't know I didn't
like the old president he was old and stupid
there's never much food in the shops when did I
last eat some good meat she said angrily I work
every day and what do I get nothing what do
you think about
oh he's worse he's a younger man and he's not
stupid but he's more dangerous he's very friendly with the
police and the army and he's putting a lot of
people in prison
that's not good for the country we want more food
not more prisoners just then they heard somebody at the
door quick Marta said upstairs hide under the bed
Alex ran upstairs and hid three minutes later Marta came
quickly upstairs her face was very angry that was my
friend George from the house down the road
somebody saw you at the window this morning it was
that woman from the post office the police give her
money and she tells them all the secrets of the
village everybody hates her
the police always have a friend in every village Alex
said sadly Marta I'm going now at once the police
are going to be here soon and ha
Marta said angrily I'm not afraid of the police or
their questions Alex Dean on who's he is he somebody
on television Alex smiled
you're a wonderful woman Marta he said goodbye and thank
you Marta looked at Alex and her old face was
suddenly unhappy
good luck boy she said Alex left the house quickly
he went through Marta's back garden and out into the
fields again he felt better after the night in Marta's
house he thought about Marta and smiled
boy he was 33 years old and a dangerous murderer
but to Marta he was only a tired and hungry
boy
at eight o'clock in the morning of the third
day the telephone rang on Felix's desk Felix listened then
put the phone down quickly
Adam he shouted we've got him he's in a village
up north in an old woman's house come on let's
go the big police car was fast and the kilometers
went quickly
Adam was tired and wanted to sleep but Felix wanted
to talk I saw the chief again last night he
said she's getting angry
I was in her office and the president phoned her
they want Dean on badly dead or alive why do
they want him dead?
I don't know Adam said let's find him first in
Marta's village a policeman stood at the door of her
house
we looked all through the house and there's nobody in
there he said only Marta the old woman and she's
not talking
what an exciting day listen to the inspector Adam said
angrily he wants to ask you some questions
Felix sat down and smiled at Marta now Marta he
said somebody saw a young man in your house yesterday
who was he Marta and where did he go he
was my sister's youngest son Marta said happily he's a
very nice boy
the policeman whispered in Felix's ear Felix looked sadly at
Marta your sister and all her family live in Australia
Marta
who was the man in your house oh dear Marta
said I'm an old woman you know 72 last month
I forget things very easily
in Australia did you say Felix asked question after question
but Marta told him nothing sometimes the young man in
her house was her sister's son
sometimes he was the young doctor from the next village
but he was never Alex Denon the president's murderer
Adam got very angry and whispered to Felix can I
ask the questions no Felix said
he did not like Adam's questions he stood up and
moved to the door but Marta now wanted to ask
him a question
and why do you work for the police young man
the police always put the wrong people in prison you
know
Marta Felix said tiredly Alex Denon is a murderer he
murdered oh I know that Marta said the newspapers said
that
but newspapers and the television never tell us the true
story Alex Denon isn't a murderer he's a nice young
man a nice young man
Felix said quickly how do you know that he's got
a nice face that's why I saw his picture on
the television
I'm an old woman and I can read people's faces
so who did murder the president then Felix asked
I don't know Marta said you're the policeman you go
and find the murderer but I can tell you one
thing you can begin with the new president he's got
a murderer's face Adam said angrily that's dangerous
Adam said stupid old woman yes Felix said perhaps she
was and perhaps she wasn't
the fourth day after he left Marta's village Alex moved
quickly and quietly across the fields nobody saw him he
walked
and ran and walked again it rained all day and
all night he walked through the night and the next
morning the fourth day he was
very tired and very hungry he hid in some trees
for an hour or two and then he went on
south always south to his hometown
where can I go he thought perhaps I can escape
from the country but I want to see Olivia again
before I leave
or before the police find me but first he needed
food he had some money in his pocket
Marta's money he remembered her words you take it I
don't need it an old woman doesn't need money
Alex smiled what a wonderful old woman he came to
a small town on a river and found a food
shop in a quiet street
he opened the door and went in there were a
lot of people in the shop and he waited quietly
behind them people looked at him
and a man went out quickly Alex wanted to run
but he was very hungry so he waited then a
woman with her young son came into the shop
the woman whispered to the boy and the boy came
up to Alex
there are two policemen in the street he said very
quietly and they're coming here
Alex looked quickly at the door but he could not
escape now then the shopkeeper called to him
hey you he said quick go out through the back
Alex ran through the back of the shop and the
shopkeeper followed him
I never help the police they're all bad he said
he opened the back door and looked out
it's okay he said quickly you can get out of
town along the river follow the back of the houses
nobody goes there
good luck thank you Alex said and ran 3 kilometers
from the town Alex came to a road he crossed
the road quickly
but a lorry came along at the same time the
lorry slowed down and the driver called out to him
where are you going Alex said the name of his
hometown and the driver said come on I'm going near
there
you can come with me Alex got into the front
of the lorry and the driver looked carefully into his
face
do I know you he asked Alex said nothing and
waited he felt very tired the driver stared at him
for a minute
then he smiled no I don't know you he said
get into the back of the lorry nobody can see
you there
are you hungry yes I am Alex said very well
I've got some sandwiches
here you are now get in the back quickly before
we see a police car the lorry drove slowly south
Alex ate all the driver's sandwiches and then slept like
a dead man we are always three hours or more
behind him
perhaps this shopkeeper can tell us something Adam said but
the shopkeeper was not helpful
somebody saw him in your shop I don't have prisoners
in my shop the shopkeeper said angrily
and I don't want the police here did Dean on
come into this shop Felix asked Dean on the shopkeeper
said slowly
what did he do wait a minute yes did he
write a book about the old president he killed the
president
Adam said he murdered him oh yes the shopkeeper said
I remember now it was a good book but the
president's murderer did not come into my shop this morning
Felix watched the shopkeepers face
carefully my question he said asked about Alex Dean on
the shopkeeper looked at Felix and smiled
slowly that's right he said Felix and Adam talked to
a lot of people and asked a lot of questions
in that small town
but they learned nothing later back in the office Felix
was very quiet suddenly he looked at Adam across the
desk and said
we can't get Dean on's book in this country do
you know it Adam no Adam said Felix stared at
the telephone on his desk
where is Dean on he said slowly people are helping
him but why he's a murderer and nobody wants to
help us
people never help the police in this country Adam said
people don't like us why are we policemen Adam
it's a good job Adam said and the money's good
after a minute or two Felix said did Dean on
murder the president
what do you think Adam well why did they put
him in prison then that doesn't answer my question Felix
said
I do my job Adam said and I don't ask
questions Felix looked at him but said nothing
the fifth day in an old house in a quiet
road a woman waited she waited day and night and
did not sleep
at nine o'clock in the evening of the fifth
day she heard a noise at the window at the
back of the house quickly she ran and opened the
window
a minute later she was in Alex's arms they did
not speak for a long time then they talked quietly
about their friends and their family
the children are with my sister Olivia said it's better
for them there but I came here to Rudy's house
Rudy's away and poorly told me this was the best
place to wait I wanted to see you before you
leave the country
oh Alex I'm so afraid for you yes escape is
going to be difficult Alex said I talked to Paulie
on the phone the police yes but you escaped from
prison
Olivia said quickly you have a lot of friends perhaps
Paulie can help you or perhaps I've got some good
friends I know that
but I've got a lot of enemies too Alex said
slowly very dangerous enemies suddenly Olivia saw his hands
your hands oh Alex what happened to your hands Alex
looked down at them it happened in prison he said
slowly they did it with a knife
and cigarettes but why Olivia whispered why did they do
that they wanted a name but I didn't tell them
what name
the name of the president's murderer but they say you
killed him Olivia began yes but I did not kill
the president and the police know that
so they put you in prison Olivia said because they
needed a murderer yes and because of my book about
the old president and the government
of this country it was a very angry book do
you remember Alex smiled but the old president read it
and liked it he wasn't a bad man and he
wanted a better life for the people
he wanted to change things in this country but he
couldn't the police and the army stopped him and the
new president of course is a good friend of the
police
and the army a very good friend Alex laughed angrily
you see Olivia the police know the murderer's name but
it's a secret they don't want people in this country
to know the name
and so they were angry with me in prison because
they think that I know the murderer's name
Olivia's face was afraid do do you know she whispered
yes Alex looked at his wife's white unhappy face
but I'm not going to tell you he said quietly
it's a very dangerous name
Alex had some food and changed his clothes then he
slept and Olivia watched the road through the windows
in his office Felix waited for more news he waited
and he thought about his job about the dead president
and the new president
about the old woman Marta about Eva Heine the chief
of police and about Alex Dinaan at 905 p.m.
the telephone rang on Felix's desk he listened then quickly
jumped to his feet and
called to Adam Dinaan's in his hometown he shouted he's
in his old teacher's house he went in three minutes
ago Adam laughed
we've got him now he said happily listen Felix said
quickly take ten more men with you and drive down
to Dinaan's town at once
wait near the house and watch but don't go in
I'm going to phone the chief now and then follow
you
right Adam said and quickly left the room Felix phoned
the chief and told her the news good the chief
said
now wait there I want to speak to you again
in ten minutes Felix waited angrily he wanted to leave
at once he wanted to talk to Alex Dinaan
perhaps Dinaan knew the answers to Felix's questions the phone
rang and Felix picked it up quickly now listen inspector
don't go into the house
wait in the road and watch but we can go
into the house and get him Felix said why not
no that's dangerous perhaps his wife and children are in
the
house but his children are with his wife's sister we
know that Felix said so listen to me inspector Felix
did not answer are you
listening to me inspector yes chief Felix said quietly now
Dinaan can't stay in the house he's going to come
out later in the
night when the streets are quiet he can't escape the
soldiers soldiers what soldiers Felix
said angrily I don't need the army this man Dinaan
is very very important inspector you need help and the
army is going to help you
they're putting 300 men in all the roads near the
house I want Dinaan tonight inspector the chief put the
phone down and Felix stared at his desk alive or
dead he thought
which does she and our new president want I think
I know the answer they want him dead and I
want to know why the police car took
Felix to Dinaan's hometown an hour away and Felix found
Adam in a quiet street behind the house they sat
in Adam's car and talked Adam looked at Felix's face
what are you angry about he asked Dinaan's in the
house and he can't escape now when he comes out
we've got him I'm angry Felix said because half the
army with its
guns is in this town tonight I wanted to go
into the house but I can't because the chief said
no and the soldiers are watching the house
but I wanted to get to Dinaan first that's going
to be difficult Adam said soldiers shoot first and ask
questions later yes Felix said slowly
they're going to kill Alex Dinaan and I can't stop
them
the sixth day at three o'clock in the morning
Alex got up from the bed and looked out of
the window Olivia opened her eyes
are you are you leaving now she asked yes Alex
said I can't stay longer perhaps the police are out
there now they're watching all our friends houses
Paulie told me he put on his shoes and coat
then looked at his wife Olivia listen be very careful
and live very quietly
the police are going to watch you for some time
wait for a year then take the children and leave
the country secretly our friends can help you
find a new home in a new country and make
a new life Olivia began to cry but Alex you're
going to be there with us
Alex smiled yes perhaps he took his wife's face in
his hands and looked into her unhappy eyes
don't cry my love he said quietly give me a
smile before I go oh Alex I'm afraid
Olivia could not stop crying I love you I love
you she whispered go quickly and be careful please
Alex smiled sadly goodbye my love he left the house
quickly and went out into the dark night he waited
for ten minutes at the door and listened
but he heard nothing and saw nothing he came out
into the road very carefully again he waited from an
upstairs window
in his house a white face watched him then Alex
began to walk quickly along the road he stayed near
the houses and looked behind him again and again
200 meters along the road there was a car Alex
stared at it but there was nobody in the car
and he walked quickly passed
suddenly there were noises and lights and soldiers with guns
Alex began to run but he did not run far
there was a shot two three four five shots and
Alex did not move again
Felix ran across the road and looked at the body
Adam was there before him
is he alive Felix asked quickly no he's dead Adam
stood up and looked at Felix very very dead he
said
Felix's face was angry the soldiers killed him he said
Adam looked at Felix well that's their job
Dean on ran away so the soldiers shot him alive
or dead the chief said but we found him that's
the important thing
Felix stared down at Alex Dean on's face I wanted
to talk to him to ask him to ask him
what Adam said
Felix did not answer he looked down at the dead
body on the road then he turned away
nothing he said it doesn't matter there was a lot
of noise in the road now soldiers and policemen moved
here
and there police cars came and went the people in
the houses looked out of their windows but they did
not open their doors it was better not to ask
questions
an ambulance came and took the body away later that
day Felix went back to the chief's office the chief
called him into her room
so he's dead she said well done Felix the president
is very pleased with you the chief did not often
say Felix usually she called him inspector
Felix sat down and looked at either hind a lot
of people think he stopped then he began again they
say Alex Dean on wasn't the president's murderer
people say a lot of things the chief said she
smiled but they're not all true don't listen to stories
Felix
you've got a good job don't ask questions but perhaps
Felix said slowly the stories are true
and it's a policeman's job to ask questions
he behind stood up and came nearer to Felix she
looked down into his face and her grey eyes were
cold
listen she said somebody murdered the old president right and
our new president needed a murderer quickly so we found
a murderer for him
they go to prison but Dean on escaped from prison
and now he's dead the murderer is dead Felix and
that's the end of the story
it was very quiet in the room the chief watched
Felix and waited Felix looked down at his hands and
said nothing
then he looked up into Eva Heinz cold eyes who
murdered the president he asked Eva Heinz face did not
change
she stared at Felix and Felix stared back at her
after a long time Eva Heinz said
then he looked away out of the window after a
minute or two he stood up and went to the
door then he turned and looked at the chief of
police
I'd like to know the murderer's name he said quietly
and I'm going to find it he opened the door
goodbye chief he went out and closed the door behind
him for the last time
you